blog: add post about nginx-ingress CVE (#323)
kubewarden/kubewarden.io: content/blog/2025/04/ingress-nginx-cve-2025-1974.md

---
title: Ingress-nginx CVE-2025-1974 - how Kubewarden can help you
authors:
  - Flavio Castelli

> date: 2025-04-02

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2025-04-03
```

---

Last week, a high severity issue [CVE-2025-1974](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-1974)
was found affecting ingress-nginx, one of the most used ingress solutions for Kubernetes.

## The issue

> The issue allows an attacker to execute arbitrary code inside of the Pod running the
> controller. The attacker can then steal the Kubernetes identity of the nginx-ingress
> controller which, by design, has access to all the Secret defined inside of the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The issue allows an attacker to execute arbitrary code in the Pod running the
controller. The attacker can then steal the Kubernetes identity of the nginx-ingress
controller which, by design, has access to all the Secrets defined in the cluster.
```

The issue is exploited by making http requests against the validating webhook server used
by the nginx-ingress controller. Only the Kubernetes API server should be allowed to make
requests against the webhook endpoint.
However, it was discovered that certain clusters are even exposing this webhook endpoint
outside of the cluster, for example by using an `Ingress` resource.

## How Kubewarden can help you

Two new Kubewarden policies have been created to help Kubernetes administrators.

### Identify webhook endpoints that are accidentally exposed

The first policy, named [`do-not-expose-admission-controller-webhook-services`](https://github.com/kubewarden/do-not-expose-admission-controller-webhook-services-policy),
validates the creation and update of `ValidatingWebhookConfiguration` and `MutatingWebhookConfiguration`
resources.

The policy queries the Kubernetes API to identify services exposed externally via Ingress resources.

## Block dangerous nginx-ingress annotation

The second policy, written by a community member, is named [`ingressnightmare-policy`](https://github.com/hierynomus/ingressnightmare-policy).

> The policy validates `Ingress` resources and prevents the usage of some dangerous nginx-ingress annotations
> that can be abused as part of CVE-2025-1974.

Reviewer 2: Not sure but maybe this better. Is it worth being very explicit that not all annotations can be remediated in this way? 

Is 'described in' better than 'part of'?

```suggestion
The policy validates `Ingress` resources and prevents the usage of some, but not all, dangerous nginx-ingress annotations
that can be abused as described in CVE-2025-1974.
```

## Audit Scanner

These policies can also help identify existing workloads that may be vulnerable to CVE-2025-1974.

Using the [audit scanner feature](https://docs.kubewarden.io/explanations/audit-scanner/policy-reports),
Kubernetes administrators can detect and flag the following resources:

- `(Validating|Mutating)WebhookConfiguration` objects that rely on publicly exposed webhook endpoints.
- `Ingress` objects that could be exploited by attackers because of the usage of unsafe annotations.

> Once flagged by Kubewarden, these resources can be reviewed and remediated to enhance the cluster's
> security posture.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once flagged by Kubewarden, you can review and remediate these resources to enhance the cluster's
security posture.
```
